TRACING-3270| Document OpenTelemetry prometheus exporter (#64716)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/distr-tracing-otel-config-collector.adoc

          exporters: [logging]
----
<1> Verbosity of the logging export: `detailed` or `normal` or `basic`. When set to `detailed`, pipeline data is verbosely logged. Defaults to `normal`.

[id="prometheus-exporter_{context}"]
==== Prometheus exporter

The Prometheus exporter exports data using the Prometheus or OpenMetrics formats.

* Support level: link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview[Technology Preview]
* Supported signals: metrics

> .OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with enabled Prometheus exporter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource with the enabled Prometheus exporter
```

[source,yaml]
----
  ports:
  - name: promexporter <1>
    port: 8889
    protocol: TCP
  config: |
    exporters:
      prometheus:
        endpoint: 0.0.0.0:8889 <2>
        tls: <3>
          ca_file: ca.pem
          cert_file: cert.pem
          key_file: key.pem
        namespace: prefix <4>
        const_labels: <5>
          label1: value1
        enable_open_metrics: true <6>
        resource_to_telemetry_conversion: <7>
          enabled: true
        metric_expiration: 180m <8>
    service:
      pipelines:
        metrics:

>           exporters: [jaeger]

Reviewer 2: exporters: [prometheus]

Author: done

>           exporters: [jaeger]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          exporters: [prometheus]
```

----

> <1> Exposes Prometheus port from the collector Pod and Service. The port name can be then used in `ServiceMonitor` or `PodMonitor` to enable scraping of metrics by the Prometheus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Exposes Prometheus port from the collector Pod and Service. You can enable scraping of metrics by the Prometheus by using the port name in `ServiceMonitor` or `PodMonitor`.
```

> <1> Exposes the Prometheus port from the collector pod and service. You can enable scraping of metrics by Prometheus by using the port name in `ServiceMonitor` or `PodMonitor`.

Reviewer 3: `ServiceMonitor` and `PodMonitor` need a noun after them. I think they're custom resources. 

```suggestion
<1> Exposes the Prometheus port from the collector pod and service. You can enable scraping of metrics by Prometheus by using the port name in `ServiceMonitor` or `PodMonitor`.
```

Author: done

> <2> The endpoint on which the metrics will be exposed.

Reviewer 3: We don't use "will" in OCP docs: https://docs.engineering.redhat.com/display/CCSENABLE/Future+tense

```suggestion
<2>  The network endpoint where the metrics are exposed.
```

> <2> The network endpoint where the metrics are be exposed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<2> The network endpoint where the metrics are exposed.
```

> <3> The server side TLS configuration. Defines paths to TLS certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> The server-side TLS configuration. Defines paths to TLS certificates.
```

<4> If set, exports metrics under the provided value. No default.

> <5>  Key-value pair labels that are applied for every exported metric. No default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Key-value pair labels that are applied for every exported metric. No default.
```

> <6> If true, metrics will be exported using the OpenMetrics format. Exemplars are only exported in the OpenMetrics format, and only for histogram and monotonic sum (i.e. counter) metrics. Disabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<6> If true, metrics will be exported using the OpenMetrics format. Exemplars are only exported in the OpenMetrics format and only for histogram and monotonic sum metrics as such `counter`. Disabled by default.
```

> <6> If `true`, metrics will be exported using the OpenMetrics format. Exemplars are only exported in the OpenMetrics format and only for histogram and monotonic sum metrics such as `counter`. Disabled by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<6> If `true`, metrics are be exported using the OpenMetrics format. Exemplars are only exported in the OpenMetrics format and only for histogram and monotonic sum metrics such as `counter`. Disabled by default.
```

> <6> If `true`, metrics are be exported using the OpenMetrics format. Exemplars are only exported in the OpenMetrics format and only for histogram and monotonic sum metrics such as `counter`. Disabled by default.

Reviewer 4: Do we need to define what an exemplar is? I do not see it in the docs (other than vague references in the API docs)

Author: no, Exemplars are part of  OpenMetrics format, the customers that will be enabling this should know what it is.

> <7> If `enabled` is `true`, all the resource attributes will be converted to metric labels by default. Disabled by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<7> If `enabled` is `true`, all the resource attributes are converted to metric labels by default. Disabled by default.
```

> <7> If `enabled` is `true`, all the resource attributes are be converted to metric labels by default. Disabled by default.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<7> If `enabled` is `true`, all the resource attributes are converted to metric labels by default. Disabled by default.
```

> <8> Defines how long metrics are exposed without updates. Default is `5m`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<8> Defines how long metrics are exposed without updates; `5m` is the default.
```
